I remember during  my undergraduate there was this instructor who we considered very friendly to students little did we know he was making our lives so difficult.He would give us the so called "home take away" continuous assessment tests.Being grade minded students we would wait for the best performing student in the class to finish doing their tests and then copy everything.The desire to get good grades and the notion that the students who scored good grades are the brightest and know it all was maddening.It made us lose our main focus in school which is acquiring knowledge on our field of study.It is nowonder the job market out there is filled with college graduates who have very good papers with good grades but can't put anything in practice.At the end of the day we scored higher grades which wasn't a reflection of what our academic capabilities were.
Impress upon students that what they’re doing will count toward their grade, and their response will likely be to avoid taking any unnecessary intellectual risks.  They’ll choose a shorter book, or a project on a familiar topic, in order to minimize the chance of doing poorly — not because they’re “unmotivated” but because they’re rational.  They’re responding to adults who, by telling them the goal is to get a good mark, have sent the message that success matters more than learning(alphie khon,2011)
Grading students is not bad because at the end of the day everyone wants to know how they are performing or doing in class.The mentality of every human being is that a well done job should be rewarded and when it comes to school there is no difference.The students who feel they are working hard in their studies wants to shine.They want the world to know that they doing great by being awarded good grades.However the grading system or how a letter ends up prooving ones perfomance is what i don't agree with.  It’s not enough to use “standards-based” grading.  That phrase may suggest any number of things — for example, more consistency, or a reliance on more elaborate formulas, in determining grades; greater specificity about what each grade signifies; or an increase in the number of tasks or skills that are graded.  At best, these prescriptions do nothing to address the fundamental problems with grading.  At worst, they exacerbate those problems.  In addition to the simplistic premise that it’s always good to have more data, we find a penchant shared by the behaviorists of yesteryear that learning can and should be broken down into its components, each to be evaluated separately.  And more frequent temperature-taking produces exactly the kind of disproportionate attention to performance (at the expense of learning) that researchers have found to be so counterproductive(alphie khon,2011)
Grading should be abolished and educators should come up with better ways of motivating students and assessing their perfomance.There is certainly value in assessing tReplacing letter and number grades with narrative assessments or conferences — qualitative summaries of student progress offered in writing or as part of a conversation — is not a utopian fantasy.  It has already been done successfully in many elementary and middle schools and even in some high schools, both public and private (Kohn, 1999c).  It’s important not only to realize that such schools exist but to investigate why they’ve eliminated grades, how they’ve managed to do so (hint: the process can be gradual), and what benefits they have realized.he quality of learning and teaching, but that doesn’t mean it’s always necessary, or even possible, to measure those things — that is, to turn them into numbers(alphie khon,2011).
IN conclusion,it’s not enough to add narrative reports.  “When comments and grades coexist, the comments are written to justify the grade” (Wilson, 2009, p. 60).  Teachers report that students, for their part, often just turn to the grade and ignore the comment, but “when there’s only a comment, they read it,” says high school English teacher Jim Drier.  Moreover, research suggests that the harmful impact of grades on creativity is no less (and possibly even more) potent when a narrative accompanies them.  Narratives are helpful only in the absence of grades (Butler, 1988; Pulfrey et al., 2011).
https://media2.giphy.com/media/FrrAXcWlwUGvSOeXz8/giphy360p.mp4?cid=ecf05e47vqmu86r0f9c75ahq8nbfd9gmz9nlix056hv8wycl&rid=giphy360p.mp4&ct=v&cc=en
